Review 2026.1 changelog/documentation changes (#19319)
nvaccess/nvda: user_docs/en/changes.md

## 2026.1

This release includes built-in support for reading math content with MathCAT.
It also introduces on-device AI image descriptions.

> You can now use `NVDA+g` to describe images you encounter.

Author: Isn't this redundant?

> You can now use `NVDA+g` to describe images you encounter.

Reviewer: one sentence is to emphasise that it's offline, the other, that it's short and estimated.

> You can now use `NVDA+g` to describe images you encounter.

Author: @seanbudd how about
```suggestion
You can now use `NVDA+g` to get a short, approximate description of images you encounter, without any data leaving your device.
```

You can now configure NVDA to automatically say all after successfully recognising content, such as with Windows OCR.
NVDA no longer reports the language being read as unsupported when the synthesizer supports the language but not the specific dialect.

Braille support has also been improved.
It now continues to work when switching to a secure screen, like the sign-in screen or User Account Control dialog.
NVDA messages from the local computer are now shown in braille when controlling a computer via Remote Access.
Spelling errors and the number of items in a list in browse mode can now be shown in braille.
Other braille bug fixes, including in Microsoft Outlook and LibreOffice Writer, have also been added.

In browse mode in web browsers, NVDA no longer treats controls with 0  width or height as invisible.
This may make it possible to access previously inaccessible "screen reader only" content on some websites.
Malformed links no longer prevent NVDA from reading content in Google Chrome and other Chromium-based browsers.
The browse mode highlighter now appears on content recognition results, such as when using Windows OCR.

> And in Microsoft Word, unassigned Quick Navigation commands to jump to references have been added.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In Microsoft Word, unassigned Quick Navigation commands to jump to references have been added.
```

### New Features

> * NVDA can now use on-device AI to generate image Descriptions. (#18475, @tianzeshi-study)

Author: Yup, will do. Forgot to do it last night haha

* The length of beeps used when "Line indentation reporting" is set to "Tones" or "Both Speech and Tones" has been reduced. (#18898)
* When controlling a computer via Remote Access with a braille display connected, messages spoken from the local computer are also shown in braille. (#18004)
* Component updates:

>   * Updated Liblouis to [3.36.0](https://github.com/liblouis/liblouis/releases/tag/v3.36.0). (#18848, #19315, @LeonarddeR)

Reviewer: I think it's better to keep it, reminds users what liblouis is

```suggestion
  * Updated Liblouis braille translator to [3.36.0](https://github.com/liblouis/liblouis/releases/tag/v3.36.0). (#18848, #19315, @LeonarddeR)
```

* Fixed a case where braille output would fail with an error. (#19025, @LeonarddeR)
* Battery time announcements now skip redundant "0 hours" and "0 minutes" and use proper singular/plural forms. (#9003, @hdzrvcc0X74)
* When a synthesizer has a fallback language for the current dialect, the language of the text being read will no longer be reported as unsupported. (#18876, @nvdaes)
* Certain settings will no longer erroneously be saved to disk when running NVDA from the launcher. (#18171)
* Incorrect information is no longer displayed in braille when navigating the list of messages in Outlook Classic. (#18993, @nvdaes)
* NVDA now detects and stops repeated crash loops to prevent system lockups when startup failures occur. (#19133, @derekriemer)
* When moving Braille to the next line in LibreOffice Writer when the caret is at the start of the last line, it will now consistently move to the end of the document. (#19152, @LeonarddeR, @nvdaes)
* The browse mode cursor highlighter now appears on content recognition results, such as when using Windows OCR. (#19168, @hwf1324)

> * In the Input Gestures dialog, gestures including an operator while num lock is on will now be correctly displayed. (#19214, @CyrilleB79)

Reviewer: We should follow our user guide convention with keys, see also NVDAModifierKey section

```suggestion
* In the Input Gestures dialog, gestures including an operator while `numLock` is on will now be correctly displayed. (#19214, @CyrilleB79)
```

* Fixed `<` not being escaped in MathML in PDF documents. (#18520, @NSoiffer)

> * When unicode normalization is enabled for speech, navigating by character will again correctly announce combining diacritic characters like acute ( &#x0301; ). (#18722, @LeonarddeR)

Reviewer: please restore this: https://github.com/nvaccess/nvda/pull/18833#discussion_r2312675191

  * Updated comtypes to 1.4.11. (#18611)
  * Updated py2exe to 0.14.0.0. (#18611)
  * Updated markdown to 3.8.2. (#18638)

>   * detours to `9764cebcb1a75940e68fa83d6730ffaf0f669401`. (#18447, @LeonarddeR)

Reviewer: this should not have been updated

Author: @seanbudd are you sure? This reverts a change erroneously introduced into changes for a previous version.

```
PS D:\projects\nvda> git show 8fa86da336 -- user_docs/en/changes.md
commit 8fa86da336cff078035c0ed9be6a7736a45d360f
Author: Leonard de Ruijter <3049216+LeonarddeR@users.noreply.github.com>
Date:   Fri Oct 3 02:02:43 2025 +0200

    Update scons to 4.10.0 (#19016)
    
    Summary of the issue:
    
    SCons 4.10 was released. It has some MSVC related issues fixed, particularly the one that caused GitHub Actions initialization to be very slow. This was already partially fixed by caching msvc settings, but the initial run should also be must faster now.

diff --git a/user_docs/en/changes.md b/user_docs/en/changes.md
index 219893111a..a8f19dbe2a 100644
--- a/user_docs/en/changes.md
+++ b/user_docs/en/changes.md
@@ -248,7 +248,8 @@ Please refer to [the developer guide](https://download.nvaccess.org/documentatio
   * Updated comtypes to 1.4.11. (#18611)
   * Updated py2exe to 0.14.0.0. (#18611)
   * Updated markdown to 3.8.2. (#18638)
-  * detours to `9764cebcb1a75940e68fa83d6730ffaf0f669401`. (#18447, @LeonarddeR)
+  * Updated detours to `9764cebcb1a75940e68fa83d6730ffaf0f669401`. (#18447, @LeonarddeR)
+  * Updated SCons to 4.10.0. (#19016, @LeonarddeR)
 * For `IAccessible` objects, the `flowsFrom` and `flowsTo` properties will now raise a `NotImplementedError` for MSAA (non-IA2) objects. (#18416, @LeonarddeR)
 * The `nvda_dmp` utility has been removed. (#18480, @codeofdusk)
 * `comInterfaces_sconscript` has been updated to make the generated files in `comInterfaces` work better with IDEs. (#17608, @gexgd0419)
```

Reviewer: oh right - I thought this was changing 2025.3.1 content in the first place
